
SPANNING TREE PROPERTY

All metadata that exists in the cache is attached directly or
indirectly to the root inode.  That is, if the /usr/bin/vi inode is in
the cache, then /usr/bin, /usr, and / are too, including the inodes,
directory objects, and dentries.


AUTHORITY

The authority maintains a list of what nodes cache each inode.
Additionally, each replica is assigned a nonce (initial 0) to
disambiguate multiple replicas of the same item (see below).

  map<int, int> replicas;  // maps replicating mds# to nonce

The cached_by set _always_ includes all nodes that cache the
partcuarly object, but may additionally include nodes that used to
cache it but no longer do.  In those cases, an expire message should
be in transit.  That is, we have two invariants:

 1) the authority's replica set will always include all actual
    replicas, and

 2) cache expiration notices will be reliably delivered to the
    authority.

The second invariant is particularly important because the presence of
replicas will pin the metadata object in memory on the authority,
preventing it from being trimmed from the cache.  Notification of
expiration of the replicas is required to allow previously replicated
objects from eventually being trimmed from the cache as well.

Each metdata object has a authority bit that indicates whether it is
authoritative or a replica.  


REPLICA NONCE

Each replicated object maintains a "nonce" value, issued by the
authority at the time the replica was created.  If the authority has
already created a replica for the given MDS, the new replica will be
issues a new (incremented) nonce.  This nonce is attached
to cache expirations, and allows the authority to disambiguate
expirations when multiple replicas of the same object are created and
cache expiration is coincident with replication.  That is, when an
old replica is expired from the replicating MDS at the same time that
a new replica is issued by the authority and the resulting messages
cross paths, the authority can tell that it was the old replica that
was expired and effectively ignore the expiration message.  The
replica is removed from the replicas map only if the nonce matches.


SUBTREE PARTITION

Authority of the file system namespace is partitioned using a
subtree-based partitioning strategy.  This strategy effectively
separates directory inodes from directory contents, such that the
directory contents are the unit of redelegation.  That is, if / is
assigned to mds0 and /usr to mds1, the inode for /usr will be managed
by mds0 (it is part of the / directory), while the contents of /usr
(and everything nested beneath it) will be managed by mds1.

The description for this partition exists solely in the collective
memory of the MDS cluster and in the individual MDS journals.  It is
not described in the regular on-disk metadata structures.  This is
related to the fact that authority delegation is a property of the
{\it directory} and not the directory's {\it inode}.

Subsequently, if an MDS is authoritative for a directory inode and does
not yet have any state associated with the directory in its cache,
then it can assume that it is also authoritative for the directory.

Directory state consists of a data object that describes any cached
dentries contained in the directory, information about the
relationship between the cached contents and what appears on disk, and
any delegation of authority.  That is, each CDir object has a dir_auth
element.  Normally dir_auth has a value of AUTH_PARENT, meaning that
the authority for the directory is the same as the directory's inode.
When dir_auth specifies another metadata server, that directory is
point of authority delegation and becomes a {\it subtree root}.  A
CDir is a subtree root iff its dir_auth specifies an MDS id (and is not
AUTH_PARENT).

 - A dir is a subtree root iff dir_auth != AUTH_PARENT.  

 - If dir_auth = AUTH_PARENT then the inode auth == dir auth, but the
   converse may not be true.

The authority for any metadata object in the cache can be determined
by following the parent pointers toward the root until a subtree root
CDir object is reached, at which point the authority is specified by
its dir_auth.

Each MDS cache maintains a subtree data structure that describes the
subtree partition for all objects currently in the cache:

  map< CDir*, set<CDir*> > subtrees;

 - A dir will appear in the subtree map (as a key) IFF it is a subtree
   root.

Each subtree root will have an entry in the map.  The map value is a
set of all other subtree roots nested beneath that point.  Nested
subtree roots effectively bound or prune a subtree.  For example, if
we had the following partition:

 mds0 /
 mds1 /usr
 mds0 /usr/local
 mds0 /home

The subtree map on mds0 would be

 /     -> (/usr, /home)
 /usr/local -> ()
 /home -> ()

and on mds1:

 /usr  -> (/usr/local)


AMBIGUOUS DIR_AUTH

While metadata for a subtree is being migrated between two MDS nodes,
the dir_auth for the subtree root is allowed to be ambiguous.  That
is, it will specify both the old and new MDS ids, indicating that a
migration is in progress.  

If a replicated metadata object is expired from the cache from a
subtree whose authority is ambiguous, the cache expiration is sent to
both potential authorities.  This ensures that the message will be
reliably delivered, even if either of those nodes fails.  A number of
alternative strategies were considered.  Sending the expiration to the
old or new authority and having it forwarded if authority has been
delegated can result in message loss if the forwarding node fails.
Pinning ambiguous metadata in cache is computationally expensive for
implementation reasons, and while delaying the transmission of expiration
messages is difficult to implement because the replicating must send
the final expiration messages when the subtree authority is
disambiguated, forcing it to keep certain elements of it cache in
memory.  Although duplicated expirations incurs a small communications
overhead, the implementation is much simpler.


AUTH PINS

Most operations that modify metadata must allow some amount of time to
pass in order for the operation to be journaled or for communication
to take place between the object's authority and any replicas.  For
this reason it must not only be pinned in the authority's metadata
cache, but also be locked such that the object's authority is not
allowed to change until the operation completes.  This is accomplished
using {\it auth pins}, which increment a reference counter on the
object in question, as well as all parent metadata objects up to the
root of the subtree.  As long as the pin is in place, it is impossible
for that subtree (or any fragment of it that contains one or more
pins) to be migrated to a different MDS node.  Pins can be placed on
both inodes and directories.

Auth pins can only exist for authoritative metadata, because they are
only created if the object is authoritative, and their presence
prevents the migration of authority.


FREEZING

More specifically, auth pins prevent a subtree from being frozen.
When a subtree is frozen, all updates to metadata are forbidden.  This
includes updates to the replicas map that describes which replicas
(and nonces) exist for each object.

In order for metadata to be migrated between MDS nodes, it must first
be frozen.  The root of the subtree is initially marked as {\it
freezing}.  This prevents the creation of any new auth pins within the
subtree.  After all existing auth pins are removed, the subtree is
then marked as {\it frozen}, at which point all updates are
forbidden.  This allows metadata state to be packaged up in a message
and transmitted to the new authority, without worrying about
intervening updates.

If the directory at the base of a freezing or frozen subtree is not
also a subtree root (that is, it has dir_auth == AUTH_PARENT), the
directory's parent inode is auth pinned.  

 - a frozen tree root dir will auth_pin its inode IFF it is auth AND
   not a subtree root.

This prevents a parent directory from being concurrently frozen, and a
range of resulting implementation complications relating metadata
migration.


CACHE EXPIRATION FOR EXPORTING SUBTREES

Cache expiration messages that are received for a subtree that is
being exported are either deferred or handled immediately, based on
the sender and receiver states. The importing MDS will always defer until
after the export finishes, because the import could fail. The exporting MDS
processes the expire UNLESS the expiring MDS does not know about the export or
the exporting MDS is no longer auth.
Because MDSes get witness notifications on export, this is safe. Either:
a) The expiring MDS knows about the export, and has sent messages to both
MDSes involved, or
b) The expiring MDS did not know about the export at the time the message
was sent, and so only sent it to the exporting MDS. (This implies that the
exporting MDS hasn't yet encoded the state to send to the replica MDS.)

When the subtree export completes, deferred expirations are either processed
(if the MDS is authoritative) or discarded (if it is not).  Because either
the exporting or importing metadata can fail during the migration
process, the MDS cannot tell whether it will be authoritative or not
until the process completes.

During a migration, the subtree will first be frozen on both the
exporter and importer, and then all other replicas will be informed of
a subtrees ambiguous authority.  This ensures that all expirations
during migration will go to both parties, and nothing will be lost in
the event of a failure.



NORMAL MIGRATION

The exporter begins by doing some checks in export_dir() to verify
that it is permissible to export the subtree at this time.  In
particular, the cluster must not be degraded, the subtree root may not
be freezing or frozen, and the path must be pinned (\ie not conflicted
with a rename).  If these conditions are met, the subtree root
directory is temporarily auth pinned, the subtree freeze is initiated,
and the exporter is committed to the subtree migration, barring an
intervening failure of the importer or itself.

The MExportDiscover serves simply to ensure that the inode for the
base directory being exported is open on the destination node.  It is
pinned by the importer to prevent it from being trimmed.  This occurs
before the exporter completes the freeze of the subtree to ensure that
the importer is able to replicate the necessary metadata.  When the
exporter receives the MDiscoverAck, it allows the freeze to proceed by
removing its temporary auth pin.

The MExportPrep message then follows to populate the importer with a
spanning tree that includes all dirs, inodes, and dentries necessary
to reach any nested subtrees within the exported region.  This
replicates metadata as well, but it is pushed out by the exporter,
avoiding deadlock with the regular discover and replication process.
The importer is responsible for opening the bounding directories from
any third parties authoritative for those subtrees before
acknowledging.  This ensures that the importer has correct dir_auth
information about where authority is redelegated for all points nested
beneath the subtree being migrated.  While processing the MExportPrep,
the importer freezes the entire subtree region to prevent any new
replication or cache expiration.

A warning stage occurs only if the base subtree directory is open by
nodes other than the importer and exporter.  If it is not, then this
implies that no metadata within or nested beneath the subtree is
replicated by any node other than the importer an exporter.  If it is,
then a MExportWarning message informs any bystanders that the
authority for the region is temporarily ambiguous, and lists both the
exporter and importer as authoritative MDS nodes.  In particular,
bystanders who are trimming items from their cache must send
MCacheExpire messages to both the old and new authorities.  This is
necessary to ensure that the surviving authority reliably receives all
expirations even if the importer or exporter fails.  While the subtree
is frozen (on both the importer and exporter), expirations will not be
immediately processed; instead, they will be queued until the region
is unfrozen and it can be determined that the node is or is not
authoritative.

The exporter walks the subtree hierarchy and packages up an MExport
message containing all metadata and important state (\eg, information
about metadata replicas).  At the same time, the expoter's metadata
objects are flagged as non-authoritative.  The MExport message sends
the actual subtree metadata to the importer.  Upon receipt, the
importer inserts the data into its cache, marks all objects as
authoritative, and logs a copy of all metadata in an EImportStart
journal message.  Once that has safely flushed, it replies with an
MExportAck.  The exporter can now log an EExport journal entry, which
ultimately specifies that the export was a success.  In the presence
of failures, it is the existence of the EExport entry only that
disambiguates authority during recovery.

Once logged, the exporter will send an MExportNotify to any
bystanders, informing them that the authority is no longer ambiguous
and cache expirations should be sent only to the new authority (the
importer).  Once these are acknowledged back to the exporter,
implicitly flushing the bystander to exporter message streams of any
stray expiration notices, the exporter unfreezes the subtree, cleans
up its migration-related state, and sends a final MExportFinish to the
importer.  Upon receipt, the importer logs an EImportFinish(true)
(noting locally that the export was indeed a success), unfreezes its
subtree, processes any queued cache expierations, and cleans up its
state.


PARTIAL FAILURE RECOVERY




RECOVERY FROM JOURNAL









